# Election2020
Sentiment Analysis Project on Tweets Related to the 2020 Presidential Election

This project will investigate Twitter activity from the day of the 2020 U.S. Election, November 3rd (as well as from the days afterwards, as the election evidently did not end that night). I have used the Twitter API to collect all tweets containing the hashtag #Election2020 in an effort to gather a dataset reflecting social media users' thoughts and opinions during the elction in a neutral, nonpartisan way. The tweets collected were those posted between __ and __.
With this dataset, we will first create some visualizations to illuminate some basic trends from Election Night (or Week). These could be questions such as:
What kinds of users were using Twitter to voice their opinions? Can we see how many followers these users had, or how many interactions their tweets recieved?
What were the most relevant hashtags that were used?
Can we break down tweets by state?
How did the volume of tweets fluctuate throughout the election? More specifically, can we see fluctuations in say, the use of particular hashtags or amount of activity from specific states, over time?
Next, we will dig deeper into the text (i.e., the actual content of the tweet itself). We will try to implement natural language processing practices to uncover key aspects such as how tweets containing "Biden" compared to those with "Trump" in them, as an example. This will lead us to the central part of this project: sentiment analysis. We will look into the sentiments of the tweets across Biden/Trump tweets, across states, across the most popular tweets, and so on. Our key initiative is to look at just how closely the sentiment of users on Twitter during the elction lines up with the actual events of the election as results were unfolding. Can we draw a correlation, or even a causation between how the election was going as different states were being designated red or blue versus how people were feeling on Twitter? Let's find out...
